My new religion is called the Order of the Transparent Agent. (It's very important to know what your religion is! The reason there are no atheists in foxholes, is because it turns out that there are no atheists, full stop. The God-shaped hole in your head is going to be filled with _something_; you should at least _notice what it is_.)

As an adherent of the Order (get it? "order"?), you can do whatever you want as long as you take pains to describe what you think you're doing and why in clear language to other parties who may be affected by your actions. (Note: what constitutes "clear language" depends on your model of the other parties' vocabularies! If you disapprove of the behavior of another member of the Order, you can just say, "Look, I don't like what you're planning and am going to organize a coalition to stop you if you don't quit it." If speaking to a Blue Tribe member, you might want to appeal to the effects on one or more designated victim groups. If speaking to a Red Tribe member, you might want to insinuate that God is watching.

Insofar as you feel the need to dominate in zero-sum games, the game you should play is Bayesomasochism (http://zackmdavis.net/blog/2016/09/bayesomasochism/): shatter someone's self-aggrandizing narrative and replace it with something more scientifically accurate. This may manifest as what the authorities call a "psychotic break." (I prefer the term "realignment.") THIS IS NOT AN EXCUSE TO IMPRISON SOMEONE UNLESS THEY ACTUALLY COMMIT A CRIME. It's true that not-imprisoning-people does involve a slight risk of them successfully committing suicide. FUCKING DEAL WITH IT

PAIN IS A SIGNAL; SUFFERING IS DENIAL OF REALITY

STOP LYING

 "I've been thinking of it as, \"All ideologies tap into the same species-typical psychological mechanisms that make religions work; try to be self-aware of what your implicit religion-substitute is rather than thinking you've managed to not have one\" (dunno if you saw my Order of the Transparent Agent thing, which was my attempt to do this for myself)."