Okay, but there's still the question of whether the dichotomy and spectrum are doing useful intellectual work (or, if you prefer, _how much_ useful intellectual work; or, if you prefer, _what kind_ of intellectual work for what purposes).

To make up an obviously silly example as an extremal case (that illustrates a general problem that also manifests less extremely in less extreme cases), we could imagine categorizing speakers as those who use the word "serendipity", and those who do not. Then someone else points out that actually, most people use the word "serendipity" _sometimes_, and that we should actually have a _spectrum_ measuring _how often_ people use the word "serendipity". Then someone else points out that actually, whether people use the word "serendipity" depends on _context_. Then someone else says it's hardly unusual that you can shift from viewing this as a dichotomy or a spectrum or contextual depending on how much detail you want to go into.

This is a _bad discussion_. We should try to _not_ have discussions like this. And the _reason_ it's a bad discussion is that even if we're linguists doing a doctral thesis on the very narrow topic of the true meaning of the word _serendipity_, the spectrum (number of uses as integer _n_) and dichotomy (number of uses, zero or greater-than-zero) measurements don't help us make progress towards that goal. Not every possible measurement is equally useful; some concepts are better [dimensionality reductions](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dimensionality_reduction) than others.

Nerst looked at the Harris–Klein debate, saw
